Geeks For Geeks.



https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/programming-tips-for-beginners/



To 10 Programming Steps for Beginners:



1. Apply theoretical knowledge practically.

so the first tip is to use theoretical knowledge practically rather than just consuming theoretical knowledge.



This step is about syntax habits and typing speed.

.help in problem-solving skills.

.help in getting logic quickly in solving problems.

Knowledgeable about common programming problems.



2. Don't Leave a Gap in Your Learning:



so the second step is about consistency a programming learner should have consistency in their learning habits





3. Don't overanalyze the concept:

The third step is time management, focusing on task completion rather than wasting time on overanalysis concepts.



4. Read The Error Message Carefully

the 4th tip is to read the error carefully and try to understand the error message first by yourself, before getting help from your senior.



5. Solve the MCQs Question in programming:



learning programming for the first time solving MCQs helps get a good command of syntax and understand some important rules in programming.

MCQs are available on the Internet such as W3Schools and other platforms.



6. Code with Hands:

as we are used to coding on a computer it is important to code by hand it helps you to process things faster for example if

an interviewer asks you to write down the code on hand then you can do it faster than the one who just used to code on a computer.



7. Read Other People's Code:

reading other people's code is important it will help you some time to solve the problem that's looking tough.



8. Enhance Problem-Solving Skills:

Problem-solving skills are one of the most important skills for web developers, professional developers also face problems

but they work constantly to enhance their problem-solving and don't let it in the middle, so errors are common.



9. Divide Things into Smaller parts:

As a beginner, you should figure out how to divide the time in a correct and completely on time. Starting with basic and going up level by level will help you to complete the task correctly and timely.



10. Find a Perfect Mentor:

As a beginner, it is important that you should be guided by a mentor from the beginning, who has good understanding and knowledge.He/She guides you in the right direction and explains problems with its solution.